Docs/ce 477 dataplances on ecs (#19010)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/connect/dataplane/index.mdx

layout: docs
page_title: Simplified Service Mesh with Consul Dataplane
description: >-
   Consul Dataplane removes the need to run a client agent for service discovery and service mesh by leveraging orchestrator functions. Learn about Consul Dataplane, how it can lower latency for Consul on Kubernetes and AWS ECS, and how it enables Consul support for AWS Fargate and GKE Autopilot.
---

# Simplified Service Mesh with Consul Dataplane

This topic provides an overview of Consul Dataplane, a lightweight process for managing Envoy proxies. Consul Dataplane removes the need to run client agents on every node in a cluster for service discovery and service mesh. Instead, Consul deploys sidecar proxies that provide lower latency, support additional runtimes, and integrate with cloud infrastructure providers.

## Supported environments

- Dataplanes can connect to Consul servers v1.14.0 and newer. 
- Dataplanes on Kubernetes requires Consul K8s v1.0.0 and newer.  

> - Dataplanes on AWS Elastic Container Services (ECS) requires Consul ECS v1.0.0 and newer. 

Author: ```suggestion
- Dataplanes on AWS Elastic Container Services (ECS) requires Consul ECS v0.7.0 and newer. 
```

$ export VERSION=1.0.0 && \
    curl --location "https://releases.hashicorp.com/consul-k8s/${VERSION}/consul-k8s_${VERSION}_darwin_amd64.zip" --output consul-k8s-cli.zip
```
</Tab>

<Tab heading="ECS" group="ecs">

Refer to the following documentation for Consul on ECS workloads:

> - [Deploy Consul with the Terraform module](/consul/ecs/install-kubernetes)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Deploy Consul with the Terraform module](/consul/docs/ecs/deploy/terraform)
```

</Tab>

<Tab heading="ECS" group="ecs">

Refer to [Upgrade to dataplane architecture](/consul/docs/ecs/upgrade-to-dataplanes) for instructions.

</Tab>

</Tabs>

## Feature support

Consul Dataplane on Kubernetes supports the following features:

- Single and multi-cluster installations, including those with WAN federation, cluster peering, and admin partitions are supported.
- Ingress, terminating, and mesh gateways are supported.
- Running Consul service mesh in AWS Fargate and GKE Autopilot is supported.
- xDS load balancing is supported.
- Servers running in Kubernetes and servers external to Kubernetes are both supported.
- HCP Consul is supported.
- Consul API Gateway is supported on Kubernetes.

Consul dataplanes on ECS support the following features:

- Single and multi-cluster installations, including those with WAN federation, cluster peering, and admin partitions
- Mesh gateways
- Running Consul service mesh in AWS Fargate and EC2
- xDS load balancing
- Self-managed and HCP Consul managed servers

> - Consul API gateway

Author: ```suggestion
```
